So what does Spring Retry do?
At a high level, we have a client and a server.
Let's assume this client has implemented Spring Retry and
let's say the server is down temporarily.
The client attempts a RESTful request, but the request fails,
causing an I/O error,
which triggers Spring Retry to attempt the same request again.
The server is still down, causing an error, so Spring Retry tries again.
The server is still down, so it retries again, and on and on.
The client with Spring Retry will retry as many times as we specify,
or in this example,
until the server comes back up and returns a successful response.
Spring Retry is made possible thanks to the RetryOperations interface.
One implementation of RetryOperations provided by Spring is RetryTemplate,
which is what we'll be using in the SaaS Bass sample
application to implement retry.
The execute function allows us to specify an
operation in a callback to be retried.
RetryTemplate has parameters that can be customized so we can standardize
and tune our retry for our application's specific needs.
So what benefits does Spring Retry provide?
For starters,
Spring Retry is a top-level Spring project at the same level as
the likes of Spring Framework and Spring Boot.
That should give SaaS Bass and others confidence knowing
that it's well implemented and supported.
Spring Retry provides a standardized platform for retry
that is also highly configurable.
Spring Retry wraps existing microservice clients so there's no
need to start from scratch to implement retry.
Lastly,
Spring Retry follows familiar Spring and Java integration and configuration
patterns using bean dependency injection with properties files, so adding it should feel familiar to most Java developers.